\section{Introduction}

The ingenious cut-elimination method $\CERes$ invented by A. Leitsch and M.
Baaz \cite{BaazLeitsch1999MethodsofCut-Elimination,BaazLeitsch2000Cut-
eliminationandRedundancy-eliminationbyResolution
,BaazLeitsch2006Towardsaclausalanalysisofcut-elimination} uses resolution
proof search to avoid certain kinds of redundancies that affect reductive cut-
elimination methods: there are proofs for which reductive cut-elimination
methods may require non-elementary many reduction steps and produce non-
elementarily large intermediary proofs, while $\CERes$'s more global and
search-based approach produces a proof in atomic cut normal form without
performing such expensive intermediary steps \cite
{BaazLeitsch2009MethodsofCut-Elimination}.

However, as explained in Section \ref{sec:Redundancy} of this paper, there are
also cases where reductive cut-elimination methods can produce short proofs
while the proofs generated by $\CERes$ are exponentially larger. Thanks to a
simplified description of $\CERes$ in Section \ref{sec:CERes}, it becomes
evident that the source of redundancy is the naive transformation to clause
form that was implicitly used by $\CERes$.

Sections \ref{sec:InferencePermutability} and \ref{sec:StructuralClauseForm}
develop two techniques to tame the redundancy. The first takes inference
permutability into account when performing the clause form transformation,
thus avoiding the duplication of literals when disjunctions are distributed
over conjunctions. The second proposes the use of structural clause form
transformation, which does not cause an exponential blow-up in the formula
size in the worst case. These two techniques can be combined, resulting in the
least redundant $\CERes$ variant described in Section \ref{sec:Combination}.

\paragraph{Acknowledgments:} the work presented in this paper is part of the
author's Ph.D. thesis \cite{Woltzenlogel-Paleo2009A-General-Analysis-of-Cut-
Elimination-by-CERes},  under the supervision of Alexander Leitsch.  Most
ideas discussed here originated from personal communication with him.
